you got
it thank you hi um hello everyone I'm G
to call to order the town of Andover
Board of Selectmen regular meeting for
Wednesday January 13th at uh 701 our uh
first order of business is the Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the Republic for which it stands one
nation under God indivisible with
liberty and
justice okay um first item is public
speak so I'm going to go through uh the
list of people that are here and then if
you have uh if I miss you please let me
know uh we'll start with Kathy and Mike
plazy um I have nothing tonight do you
have anything I don't have anything
either no we're all set thank you all
right you got it uh Linda fish all set
all right Diane Grenier I'm all set as
well thank you Dave ganian uh nothing
for me thanks
okay Wally
Barton okay nothing uh Kathleen D roers
I'm all set thank you all right Caitlyn
Macintosh
sorry I have a problem with unmute I
don't really have anything to say just
here on behalf of the Board of Ed uh
thanks for everything you guys do all
right thank you uh Louise
Goodwin I'm good thank you Liz
loet hi um I'm all set too thank you
Jerry CR whichever one you
are I think I'm this one up here okay
um I'm all I'm here
to
in in order to support the Board of
Education thank you Stephen
King can you hear me yes yeah happy New
Year everyone um hoping to see some
progress on the open position tonight
and would like to board to consider uh
language to uh eliminate the uh issues
with ties Poss possibly in the uh
Charter um natural language that you may
introduce at a later date and that's
about it thank you thank you Kimberly
pan I'm all set thank you Valerie
Bruno nothing at this point thank you
all right um Nick I believe is with well
I'll just go Nick do you want to say
[Music]
anything no I think he's with with the
video is that accurate Eric am I right
okay Leanne
Hutchinson yes can you hear me yes yes
my computer screen is telling me that
you can't okay I wanted to um quickly
reiterate two items that I had thanked
the board for addressing last month that
don't seem to have um made it into the
minutes one was um what appeared to be
the or purchase of materials that
appeared to be addressing the acoustic
in the community room and possibly also
the senior center which I had um
approached that subject in the past and
the other item was um treating the roads
when we had um a small amount of snow
but was accompanied by quite a bit of
ice and the town did treat the roads and
I thank the board for doing that because
if you just looked out your window it
looked like just there wasn't much snow
but it was deceptively icy that day and
I just don't see it appearing in the
minutes thank
you okay um uh Joanne
Ebert I'm almost I'm all set thank you
okay all right uh did I miss
anyone okay uh item three additions and
changes to the
agenda I was wondering if we
can okay go ahead
I was wondering if we can move the
executive session to closer to the end
of the meeting because of all these
people that are on here for other
various things um I don't feel like we
should have a long executive session
first it should be closer to the
end very good idea I'll make a motion
that we add a second executive session
at the end of our meeting we'll call it
uh we'll call it uh 17A
and I would also like to uh
remove item
11h uh discuss and act upon setting um
town meeting date for those three
items uh just point a record um that
would be G not h H is the budget
discussion meeting dates see whether you
want to schedule those for February
since that's coming
up okay well we must be dealing with two
different agendas I'm dealing with the
agenda that's posted on the
website and I see it as
11h I do as
well I do as
well okay so Eric I'll sit there and
I'll do this I'll sit there and go with
what out there for the public and we'll
call it 11h remove that
um that's meeting dates for Budget
discussion that's um no 11h is set
meeting date for a solar project at AES
B Bank line of credit and C fire
department tax
abatement and the reason I I want to do
that is primarily because we don't have
the ordinance for the dog field I did
not get with the the the Town attorney
on that before this meeting so I would I
would it doesn't none of the issues
there are are critical to sit there and
get done this month so I'd like to push
them off but okay is there anybody else
Jeff I'd like the I'd like to add 11j
yeah extension of probationary period
for Comm Community Center
Director
um uh we're talking about Personnel
issues in executive session correct yeah
but we still need to act on something
thing so do we want to add it to the end
of executive
session
um if you want to do it at 11j you can
have at at 11j well do you want to is
this do you want to deal with an
executive session and then add it to the
end of the meeting that's what I thought
we were doing okay we can do that that's
fine that's fine with
me
um Scott do you have anything no
and do you have anything
else
um not this point so are we eliminating
three the I mean um the executive
session at five and putting it just at
the end no um we're keeping the
executive session at 5 to speak with the
tax collector because she's on here and
okay you know we're we're g to try to
keep it very short with the executive
session with just the tax collector and
then we'll go after that after the
meeting is we get to after public speak
we'll have an executive session where
we'll talk about the Personnel issues
and the other issues that we have to
address and we can make motions after
that as well Jee uh I believe that's the
case um I just want to make sure that we
can do that after executive Dennis I'll
ask you this question as Town attorney
we can come out of executive session and
conduct business
correct he's probably having trouble
with his
mute all right I think you might have
answered
me uh no he
didn't
um well that is correct yeah
I mean I thought it was and I guess it
is correct d roer's as an answer thank
you
um Dennis um so he said
yes um he texted me because he's having
technical
problems yeah Jeff I'm I'm pretty sure
we can I just want I just want to make
sure I thought we could yeah okay okay
with the second executive just wanted to
make sure that Dennis weighed in when he
did okay that's good fine so I'm going
to make a motion that we
uh we add an additional executive
session at 17A and we remove a new I new
business item
11h I got a second on
that okay Jeff Murray seconded all those
in favor I okay four
nothing all right let's uh move on to
our uh
number four board and commission
presentations Eric do we have any no no
excellent um so Eric we're going to move
into executive session um related to
item a which is the tax collectors uh
collection strategies so if you would
Eric can you put everyone into the
waiting room this uh I'm just telling
the public we're going to try to make
this as quick as possible so I apologize
for having to do this so early but uh we
are dealing with a town employee who has
regulated
ours okay so Eric do you have
control I do I'm working on it no just
asking you the
question oh do we want anyone else in
this executive session
should we invite the town
attorney let's invite the town attorney
do anybody have a problem with that
oh okay we'll invite the town attorney
and the Town Administrator and the town
tax
collector thank you for joining
us so all of you that are left you'll be
put into a waiting room you'll get
silence for a while which will probably
be beneficial to
you and then we'll be
back I'll be honest I can't see where it
says put people in Waiting
rooms one second let me see if I can do
it
participants unless you logged in as the
town of band over also in which case
you're going to have to do it because if
you logged in second you bumped me as
the as the host probably no but you
couldn't have because I recorded yeah I
I didn't pump
you
oh so there's the host tools where I
don't see I can remove participants okay
I got it I can do it you want to do a
breakout session no he's got it now he
started it okay
all right thank you for uh everybody
waiting your patience um uh we're coming
out of executive session which was
5A uh discussion related to tax
collector and collection strategies uh I
would like to make a motion that we
authorize the tax collector to uh
Institute a a tax
sale um
for real estate
properties that have unpaid taxes of
three years or more and or greater than
$10,000 I'll second that all right for
the discussion on that topic all those
in favor I okay
so that was four nothing Eric on
that all right we're going to move on to
item six appointments Commission on
Aging uh we have a note in
our
packet what's one second it's that is
Page four page four page four um first
um my sincerest condolences to the
O'Brien family and the passing of
Georgia she was uh she was a neighbor on
Lake Road she's very nice and uh you
know sympathies for the
family so the request is that the
Commission on Aging
um would like to have test gross be
appointed and have Kathy Bazi become an
alternate
member um Tess is that
accurate uh also there was also a
request to make the current alternate
who's Linda Armstrong a regular member
right and I don't think Linda is here I
do see Kathy plazy Kathy plazy is that
accurate making Linda Armstrong a
regular member pointing test gross as a
regular member and having you become an
alternate yeah yes correct thank you
um so I'll make a motion that we uh
Point Linda Armstrong on Jeff hang
on oh I'm sorry um I just heard a
question to me
um I was at that meeting via phone um
I'm not sure who else well I can tell
you who else was there um but yes I was
asked to um come on board for the
Commission on Aging I did accept I did
not at that time um there was
no discussion on who was going to be an
alternate um and Linda Armstrong was
going to be a um on that board as well
so I just want that to be a
clarification if that goes into the
minutes um there was no uh at my time on
during the meeting there
was no alternate being discussed at that
time so I just want that to be
heard okay so I'm going to make a
recommendation that we appoint Linda
Armstrong to a regular position Linda
Armstrong and test gross to be regular
members of the uh Commission on Aging
and that we also appoint Kathy pazi as
an alternate member thank you um because
um Jeff I had asked that Tess being the
new director assume my full-time
position as senior coordinator on the
Commission on Aging thank you okay okay
so I made that motion does anybody want
to second that second it so an KET
seconded um do we have further
discussion on the Commission on
Aging all those in favor I all right
thank you very much everyone for
volunteering for
that okay um item seven resignations
um we did receive a letter from Carol
Lee announcing her
retirement um so I'm I'm hesitant to sit
there and accept any resignations until
I have an an opportunity to talk with
Carol and I hope that acceptable to
everybody because if you read the letter
it is a a notice of retirement not of
resigning her position which could also
be taken in a different way so because
of State changes to the pension program
Carol Le is is having to retire which is
very sad and everybody should sit there
and thank Caroline next time you see her
please thank her for everything that she
does for this community
[Music]
um this is something that we have to
deal with um from a Tom clerk
perspective we will uh Carol just
happens to be on vacation right now so
it's a little bit difficult to sit there
and
um come to a resolution so I would like
the entire public to know that Carol Lee
has announced a retirement and then at
our next meeting we'll talk about the
Tom Clerk's position does anybody have
any problem with
that any other members
well Jeff she's going the date was uh
January 31st
correct so by the time the next meeting
she's going to be gone well there
there's you know Jeff there's nothing we
can do about her retirement I so there's
two different components to this there's
yes retirement and then there's the town
clerk's
position okay so let's just so so we're
not dealing with the retirement we're
just dealing with the she it's kind of
like what we did with the chart last
Charter revision somebody tells us they
doing something it's done it's not like
we have to approve it but in this case
she did not write a letter of
resignation from the town clerk's
position she put in a notice of
retirement so I just want to clarify it
with Carol because you know you you Jeff
you and I both know that we need to sit
there and work with Carol in a
transition period related to that
position so I just want to understand
exactly what works the best for Carol
and for for the community and we'll
implement it it's so there's nothing we
can do right now we she's put in a
notice of retirement to uh to take
advantage of the situation that's
currently there related to the state in
the State Pension
Plan anybody got anything else they want
to add to that so I think Dennis is
trying to chime in Dennis i s you
you can we can that is wonderful yes for
you and for me I think anyway
uh you know the CH Charter change
regarding uh not having to accept the
resignation does not go into effect
until July 1 2025 just so you
know and um I don't I don't understand
how a retirement cannot is not a
resignation but that's up to you to
interpret that that's not I can't I
can't say one way or another I don't
have any answers to that and Jeff Murray
points out that you know January 31st is
her retirement date and that's going to
be um you know before your next regular
meeting just just saying I'm just saying
I'm not I'm not and if we have to have
uh if we have a special meeting related
to this we we'll need to have a special
meeting related to this because it's a
fairly important issue yes it is I I
agree and I think that maybe it's an
opportunity for you to uh say the things
that you wanted to say to her tonight if
she were here the nice things about what
a great job she has done and I will Echo
that myself because I've worked with her
for a long time thank you all right
thank you very much anybody have any
other issues on this that they want to
address okay I'm going to move on to
uh item eight appointment of a new board
of Selectmen candidate
um Jeff I'm assuming that at the
Republican Tom committee the Republican
Town committee will be
um offering up a a new candidate yes the
Republican Town committee will be
meeting I believe it's next week or the
week after and um we have a posting in
the paper notice in the paper till the
end of this month okay so it would be it
would be preemptive right now to
select somebody before that window is
when that window is expired for the
notice and the town committee has not
selected a nominated candidate okay um
I'm hoping that uh you get a great
turnout I would hope you get a great
turnout and a great number of candidates
and we can sit there and get this behind
us um I am hoping so as well exactly
right all right um so uh I would assume
oh well I won't assume we're going to
put this on our next uh meeting agenda
Eric and hopefully get this done next
month so February yep okay um item eight
town uh administrator
report okay so I'm just going to talk
about the things I'm just going to
highlight a few things from the report
I'm not going to go over the whole
report uh because we have a long enough
agenda um first question for the board
of Selectmen because I was asked by kog
are any of the board of Selectmen memb
is going to attend the vision zero
workshop on January 30th
2025 I've sent you the information a
couple
times I will be
traveling I can time that as a scheduled
work day for me okay
Texas okay Scott I don't think so okay
that's all I needed to know um the
second thing is I just want to publicly
thank uh Rick Langley of Lenco
electric uh he was generous enough to
donate and install the automatic door
opener for the community center so that
is in in and functional that is one of
the things that was identified by the
senior advisory uh committee as a
priority so I'm happy that we were able
to uh accomplish that um I would also
hope that some of you saw the uh River
East article um that John chaponis was
recognized um with an award at the
annual uh Connecticut Conference of
municipalities as a municipal Champion
for his efforts as the co-chair of the
Connecticut Association of assessing
officials so that they had a nice
article in last week's River East so I
wanted to share that uh with all of you
and those are pretty much the updates
unless somebody on the board has
questions for me related to my
report I would like to thank Rick
Langley also for a generous
donation
um I would like to sit there and I
believe Leon Hutchinson had an issue
related to the Acoustics in the
buildings both buildings and um I
noticed in your report and also in the
Department of Public Works report that
the panels have been received and when
are those panels set to be
installed uh I'm trying to work that out
with Willie uh and Susan our custodians
to install them um hopefully sooner
rather than later the priority is doing
the community center um and once that is
done we'll do the community room
community centers is an easier install
so uh
all right don't have an exact time frame
for you okay any other questions for I
have uh two questions for Eric um do we
have a schedule right uh right now for
the destratification fan install with
Linko uh we don't
um uh so it's it's a question of trying
to sync his schedules and the school
schedules okay because I would like to
try to see if we can get that started at
ASAP because I know we have some we have
some spring uh you know absence you know
the school will be out for some spring
uh vacation and hopefully we can start
fitting that work in there pretty sure
we have a February vacation scheduled
correct we get some of that work done it
would be nice to coordinate with the
school and see if we can get some of
that work completed at that time yep um
one other question is I sent an email
probably about a month ago about the
chip ceiling on on Shad bull Lane and
some of the other roads in town and how
the recent storm events the the chip
ceiling seems to be coming up and we
seem to be have getting potholes in the
road um I would like to try to schedule
something with uh Jay Tuttle and
yourself and some of the board of Select
members to discuss with the contractor
uh the failure of that installation and
and what we can do going forward to
remedy that because we're going to get
back into chip sealing season here
pretty soon and I'd like to make sure
that we address that as soon as possible
um as far as I'm I'm concerned that was
pretty substandard work and the town
needs to recover some of that
um uh money for the the remediation of
that
work okay I also I I agree with Jeff and
you know we both live in this area um it
feels like you're still walk driving on
a gravel road and it's kicking up gravel
still um it just seems like it's a very
poor combination of materials that were
used
um Long Hill was done two years earlier
and it's a lot better shape than our
street that was just done so it
definitely has a problem I mean all the
board members saw my pictures that I
sent we have potholes right in the
middle of the road where the S where the
surface has come up and you know if we
get more storm events and more freezing
events that is all going to buckle and
we're going to have more issues and I
would like to get the contractor out
there as soon as possible and show them
what is going on with the
roadway for sure CU that is it's
substandard work and we need to get that
fixed and the town should not be footing
the bill for
that no don't Eric what's the difference
between that process and the process
that was used let's say on Lake
Road uh different
contractor um the contractor that did
Lake Road was the same one that we had
so many complaints with for it being
Dusty the year before um we switched
back to comr just to eliminate the dust
complaints because Co comr uses a more
refined Stone than the previous
contractor um I mean Jeff if you want to
any sport SEL I would encourage them to
come and take a look because I mean the
it's terrible I mean it is it is
substandard work and we really need to
address this with the contractor as soon
as possible you can coordinate
gravel well we're going to get some
gravel some gravel will come up dur
based in the first year of the chip
ceiling but I mean we're missing we're
missing sections of roadway that
actually the plow actually pulled up
that didn't adhere to the to the it was
it's mostly on Shadell Lane where the
double chip was it didn't adhere
properly so the roadway is actually
coming up all right Eric if you can sit
there and schedule that that would be
great so that we can all attend um okay
and so you want it during the day I
presume absolutely make it happen and I
will be there yeah okay um also Jeff
Murray also sent us an email regarding
the line at the three-way intersection
or the intersection at the top of I
think it's Long Hill or the you know
connection of hendy and whatever what's
the situation with that line Eric I
think Jay's taking care of that I just
to it just I think Jay Jay responded and
I think he's going to try to paint over
it again but we may have to grind that
or get the paint off of the roadway
because it's just going to keep coming
up okay and we can't paint over it we
well we are painting over it but at
night it's it's highly visible when you
come around the corner it looks like
there's a stop line there it's it's it's
shows up playing his day just like all
the other stop lines we have in town
okay all right any other questions ER
yes I have another question uh the other
day I was trying to call the
Community Senior Center and I couldn't
get through I tried calling um and
calling Town Hall they tried to they
gave me a number that number was not in
service I found the senior newsletter or
the community center newsletter I tried
that number I got test her personal I
know personal cell phone or what but she
wasn't at the center I was trying to
find the number for the center and I
think finally somebody forwarded my call
to the center but it's hard to know how
to get a hold of anybody at the center I
do know this that's interesting I do
know that we were uh installing a new
VoIP system there Eric when did that get
done I don't know a month ago three
weeks ago something like that so I know
I've had problems with my system every
once in a while because of how it's done
but Tess if you can sit there and please
look at that and let's test that out
tomorrow morning yeah go ahead test yeah
I'm happy to answer that um Ann I thank
you I do think that there is a a problem
in there somewhere um I do have a cell
phone through the town and that's the
798 number and people can reach me on
that um I was away on Monday at a
funeral out of state so um the we did
have the assistant in the office as well
so whatever that um if you call the
seven
42735 in the extension you should be
able to reach me other than that I think
it might be something
technical yeah the
extension it was a four-digit
extension and as soon as I hit the first
number I would get some other office in
town
hall yeah unforunately I I wouldn't be
able to have any control over that but I
do think that um it sounds
like if we can if we can test that
tomorrow test that would be great right
I I am receiving messages I receive them
all day today and um messages do go to
my voicemail so um not sure what's going
on but yeah definitely look into that
all right thank you anyone else for
Eric okay we're gonna move on to item 10
old business discussion and act upon the
following uh Community Center signage
discussion um that actually has to get
done so that's on me
again I will sit there and get with the
gentleman who did the sign on Route Six
he actually did a very nice job and we
will sit there and try to get him to sit
there and give us something that can go
up on the
wall uh 10B the blight and level of
involvement we have a set of items
starting in page 11 in the packet about
all the blight violations and
statuses um Scott you have any issues
Jeff you have any issues related to
that just the Long Hill
property which one is that the one with
the roof yeah the one with the roof gone
it's been open and has debris all over
the place and it's not been addressed
for months has has he come for permit
Eric I don't know it actually says where
work with new owner to to permit new
replacement that's why I'm asking
because the last time I talked to the
building official they did not
have uh they did not have permits for
for the
Reconstruction and
application and there is there there's
debris everywhere up there it needs to
be all cleaned up and put in a
dumpster there's piles of debris it's
it's an iore and and if I was the
neighbor I would be
upset okay so you're making a bik
complaint about that
property
okay well and the the it must that
information must not be accurate if that
says that he's applied for permits and
hasn't and you haven't heard
anything well I'm not in the building
office I know I know you're not I know
you're you know I know if you tell me
ahead of time you want me to look into
it before the meeting I certainly
can okay so I just drive by it every day
and I see no activity whatsoever going
on on that property it's been going on
probably six months
now all right so Eric just get with the
building official and see what's up with
243 that would be great and we can you
can send us out an email so that we have
this dealt with before the next meeting
okay anything else related
to um blight and level of
involvement okay item C is uh operating
software for the community and Senior
Center um Eric I know there was nothing
else in here I know we had the gentleman
the last time
um do you have the the costs related to
that software it was $4,000 if I
remember
correctly ,800 the first year and
$1,700 annual fee
thereof okay and then uh I know that you
said that
um Colombia was using the software if I
remember correctly that accurate correct
all right and Jeff Murray did you have a
an opportunity to look at Colombia and
their usage of it at all uh just just uh
briefly but I noticed other towns such
as Hein which is much larger than us
does not use any software centry does
not use any software either does
Bolton okay and I I think right now the
level of programs we have right now this
is my personal opinion that we're
probably putting the cart before the
horse right
now I think what we have for the level
of activities we could probably handle
it with either phone calls or paper sign
up sheets
okay um anybody
else one second Tess I'll get to you
anybody I agree with Jeff as far as
getting the software I think it's
premature to get software when we have
so few programs going at this
point okay uh
Tess you're yeah thank you um I I do
just want to let you know that um
Columbia beckish Community um also
centry does have um the program uh my
senior center as well Ellington does
there's quite a few that are around that
do have that same program um that
information was sent to uh Jeff I
believe that was you quite a few um
months ago but definitely I can send
that over to you again if needed um just
want to let you know that um before
there wasn't any real paperwork that was
out there and in an office setting and
so now we're going
to we're resorting to using a whole lot
of paper and which is fine by me I can
do that um but I think it would be much
more cost effective in the end using a
software system um if the board decides
not to use that Software System
absolutely but that's going to be time
consuming writing those things out and
doing things a lot more on paper which
would especially with grant writing and
Grant um reporting and so um I can
definitely do that but definitely the
hours that are spent at the community
center are extended because of um the
lack of a software system so
um that's all I that's all I want to
say okay
[Music]
um and by all by by all means if any of
the board of Selectmen have any
questions um they know how to reach me
they can come to the uh Senior Center
and I'm there from any time between 9
and two Monday through Friday if anybody
has any questions they want to see
what's going on by all means I would uh
definitely receive them as they come in
okay
um I'm a I'm a big believer in software
and attempting to sit there and make
things more efficient um but test basic
on where we're currently at and Eric
where we're currently at even if uh
Scott voted with me we're going to end
up 22 so we're gonna go to
paper well I just want to comment that
Jeff Ellington and centry are much
larger towns than ours and right now I
mean with the amount of programs that we
have there's no reason we can't monitor
it right now and if it does grow to a
point where we do need we do feel a need
and seniors embrace it like right now I
I don't think a lot of seniors will
actually use the app in this on their
phones I think a lot of them are still
in the modes where they want to fill out
paperwork or they want to come to the
community center and sign up so that's
my personal feeling right now and and
and Jee I understand I listen I I loaded
a couple apps on my father-in-law's
phone yesterday I understand the
hesitation for seniors to try to sit
there use technology I honestly think
that um you know you're just the data
that you
know we need to sit there and understand
who is using that Center in total like
because what we're um what we're having
right now is is a lack of info and if
software could help us I'm all for it
now is it is it more expensive than I
would like to pay yes and and can we do
it without it yes but we have to give
Tess some some
data points that we're expecting to
receive on a on a on a monthly basis so
that we can understand what we need to
do to to make uh participation within
that building Greater and while I judge
up to the be devil's advocate here it's
the it's the senior centor director's
position to roll that data up and
present it to us right oh no no no I I
don't I'm not saying that but if you ask
me I I would rather her sit there and
potentially take her time engaging with
the seniors and doing things with them
rather than sitting there uh paperwork
you know doing the the actual documents
because you know there is a lot of
Graphics arts and stuff that has to get
done but listen yeah correct but we do
have we do have an we do have an
assistant too right correct this is all
we do have an assistant we do have an
assistant and um
and maybe we could put this off for
three months four months someone revisit
it no no no but wait wait wait wait we
have to get the data anyway so we're not
gonna sit there and get the software
that's that right now and we can put it
off my thought Jeff is always that if we
have these these systems and we can use
them then the data and the information
can be provided by the system and then
the people that are working in the
department can actually engage with the
residents that that's my thought and
I agree with and I agreee 100% with you
but if we start offering guitar lessons
piano lessons singing lessons crafting
all that stuff then put in the report
and if we have a justification down the
road to for the software then then we
have it but right now I just don't see
it to be honest with you and and and
that's okay and we're be okay to to sit
there and and disagree related to it
it's it's
fine the the the thing is that test
you're going we're going to have to get
some data as to the activity level at
the senior center
because we as a community just need to
to be more engaged and as a
board more engaged in what is going on
in that building so that we get as much
uh we give as much we we built a nice
building we need to make sure that it's
used as much as possible and the
software is not going to stop us from
being engaged and being nice people but
it would be a a helpful tool and we'll
get back to it sooner than later yeah
right I guess I would like to see maybe
like I say three months um I'm not
really
sure what the software is going to be
doing to
help uh maybe I missed it with
the I don't understand it why don't we
sit there at some point in time and you
get into the office with Tess and and
and she can give you a little demo and
that would be help okay you know before
we talk about it the next time all right
okay okay um Tess thank you very much
appreciate you coming to the to the
meeting
um
and participating there so now we also
have uh item 10 D the burnap clock
discussion I I mean listen this clock
this clock as far as I'm concerned if it
can go into the community center at the
Town Hall what when we approve that room
for strictly in-person
meetings I think it's the best fit for
the community if you're going to put it
over into the that small room in the
community center I think I look at it
just like Jeff Murray looked at the
piano that he wanted to roll they they
that we wanted to take a donation on and
that where we put it so we're we're
taking that clock I think it's got to go
per my personal opinion and what I'll
vote for is if we put it into the town
community room and we make that a focal
point of in-person meetings and as Eric
put in his report and he didn't bring up
but um it was a discussion about um
outfitting that room for in-person
meetings I think that's where I would
want that clock anybody
else so you're saying not in the
community center but back in town hall
uh back into the community room and that
community room be identified strictly as
a room for Town
meetings
Okay um I'm okay with it either place
what I'm thinking is that for since
October I've been asking for Dennis to
get together with or by phone or however
with the clock owner to draw up a
contract between the town and that and I
wrote him on October 15th November 6th
and December 12th and he still has not
contacted the owner and I got another
letter from Jeff Balor today and uh he
went as far as trying to get another
attorney to drop the contract and he
talked to somebody who says his Law Firm
normally represents the town of tand and
he said well we should be going to our
own town attorney and not some somebody
who's in another town so I'm coming back
again to ask Dennis to contact the owner
to set up the well is this is this bo
something can I say something hold on
for a second my understanding is I work
for the board of Selectmen and the I I I
I'm not I don't function that way I I'm
supposed to there's been no decision
made as to whether or not to put it here
or there I could draft a contract very
easily I've done them for so Dennis
Dennis
Dennis Dennis can you allow me to ask if
we can get a resolution on the
location if we get a resolution we get a
resolution on the location then we can
ask you to potentially draft contract
how's that I'm ready but I we cannot if
we cannot come to a resolution on where
this clock should go and we we we don't
have a place for it there's no reason to
sit there and waste one second of time
drafting a contract that will never go
into place
so yeah I give me one second Dennis okay
all right board members do you guys do
you want it let's let's vote if we want
it in if we want it in the community
center then we'll put if this board will
vote three people to put it in that for
the Comm new community center yeah okay
Community Center or community room
because you've talked about both our new
building new building okay so make a
motion for it and let's go
make a motion Scott that you put it in
my motion to
put clock in the new community building
okay and well I'm not sure which room
we're putting it in but I want it over
there I think it's a lot safer over
there than it is at the the Old Town
Hall okay I I'll I'll second this to
have discussion I don't think it's safer
over there because that building is
going to be rented for events so you're
going to have that clock in a room that
what are you going to do lock that room
while people are having parties in it
but that clock a $40,000 clock is going
to be in that small room in that
building so
what there's Camas in that room there's
cameras in that building things have
happened in the town hall that we never
knew what happened people steal things
it's not it's not safe over there kids
have done stuff in the bathrooms in
there correct and and I don't I disagree
with you Scott but we've had that room
as an open uh as an open room
um I think we should take that room in
the town hall and convert it to an in to
an in-person meeting room equip it
properly have the chairs set up there
permanently when we have meetings that
are in person that's where we have them
we actually do it correctly that that's
what I would do in that room Scott I
would I would eliminate um
the usage of that room for any other
purpose but in to inperson
meetings I age that would be I agree
with you Jee Maguire and I think we put
the clock up high enough that we keep it
away from getting people's hands on it
and getting damaged yeah I would say if
we had a de or we had something make it
listen that clock belongs in a museum it
does not it belongs in a museum it's
it's it's a very nice piece of history
for our community right have no problem
putting it someplace but where we're
putting it is we have to understand what
we're doing with it I mean and where
it's going to go and then whose
responsibility is on a day-to-day basis
there's a lot of other things with that
clock than than just putting it into a
Corner Room in the community center
which Scout my mind with that Community
Center and you and I have talked about
this that Community Center needs to be
used all the time it needs to be used as
much as it possibly can be used so and a
lot of people could see it there
and it's open for a lot of damage too as
well damage too yeah so and then and
then if it does get damaged Who who how
are we going to find out how it was
damaged and by who if it's in the
community room it's going to be limited
to a certain amount of meetings and
everything and I highly doubt it's gonna
the probability for damage is going to
be a lot less in the community room
that's if we limit the community room
access just for meetings correct that's
for me yeah so for Town businesses and
function Town business and functions
but um so that was discussion anybody
else have anything else okay so I'll
vote for putting it in the town hall I
have no problem with that either I'm
kind of pushing you guys in the corner
so you make a decision tonight now we
now you guys want to build it up and put
it in the corner and build it up so what
are you gonna do about that now no no no
we we have to sit there and have a vote
on that too I'll vot I'll vote for that
if that's what you want but you got to
make a decision how you're going to put
it in there and there's going to be a
camera on it or something because it is
a museum piece it's a museum piece I
mean this goes into and I don't know
where Eric put it it was in the in the
the packet about
um um outfitting that room like I mean
basically you should have a de you
should have a an area where people sit
there and and sit during meetings and
there's Chairs set up and then behind
that I would put the clock you know put
it put it on the wall right behind the
meeting so the people on camera see it
and you know can you put it on a
pedestal or you mount it to the wall or
what how you how would you do that well
you have to mounted to the wall but it's
about six six and a half feet tall you
know it's a grandfather clock Big Clock
not a wall clock and there's some kind
of protection around it are we gonna
there's no protection it's Grand on the
clock protection yeah
um I mean
so are are we are we willing to vote
right now on on converting the town hall
community room into a permanent meeting
space I think it should be I think we've
been lacking that for a long time we
should for official meetings we need a
space for in-person meetings
so motion on the floor already yeah we
know we're understanding we're
discussing so thank you for
participating um I mean I'd like to
amend it to make sure that we put
adequate protections for damage you know
if we have to put some kind of a
guardrail around it or something to
protect it then that's fine we'll have
to do it Ballard all right so let's
let's plexiglass railings or something
oh that'll be perfect that'll look great
let's let's have let's vote on Scott's
motion so uh the motion was to put the
the clock in the new Community Center
Senior Center Community can I change
that now now that we've decided to vote
it okay you want to pull it
off all right pull it off we'll pull it
off We're Not Gonna vote on it so
um that motion was rescinded Eric and
why don't you make a motion to do it in
the town hall I I make a motion to put
the burnap clock in the community room
of the to town hall I'll second
that okay further discussion can I make
a motion that goes before this one we
vote on it you know we probably can it's
probably against Roberts but again we
need to make yeah let's do it after Jeff
it doesn't make a difference Do It um
all those in favor I I all right I make
a motion that we convert the town hall
community room to a permanent meeting
space for in-person meetings and
incorporate the burnap brook clock in to
whatever design that we do for the
space second I'll
second okay all those in favor hang on
discussion discussion go discussion we
want do we want to put a h threshold
cross threshold and because we will
probably have to buy some material and
Furniture to do this so
we can't just make the motion and just
make it open-ended we need to put a cost
threshold on it that's true that would
be great open-ended Jeff we make it look
nice so I did meet with Bata Friday we
went over some potential options for
that um she has a designer in mind um
somebody that she's worked with in the
past
professionally um I will try to get back
to the board with a proposal
and options on what converting that
would look
like
okay I do need some kind of idea of what
you're envisioning a budget for that
being so why don't we sit there and um
that's our vision that we do it and next
month because nothing's going to happen
before next next month next month we
approve the amount of money to spend
on we can table this till next month and
then just make that motion then once we
the cost
estimates
okay Eric can you get that
done I will try to get you some
proposals for next month okay some
reasonable monetary costs related to
that that
room what do you define as
reasonable come on bring it to us and
we'll tell you if it's reasonable or
not do it for a dollar come on to find
used furniture like uh New York City
find a low cost a mid cost the high cost
so we have some choice and see what
possibilities there are maybe maybe
Willam antic and and Windam have are
getting rid of their old meeting
furniture and we can we can get Mr
O'Brien to help us with that the Yukon
Co-op might be getting rid of some
furniture too who knows I think the
clock would go well in the Windom Town
Hall you know it's a big place and old
sure would you got to have security
there too you're gonna have to make it
secure it's $40,000 clock well we're
going to lock the room and it's not up
so any we'll deal we'll deal with all
that we'll get with Eric on on the
things that we need to to make that all
work okay good all
right item 10e solar at a I don't
necessarily know there's any discussion
that needs to be had on this is there
well sure go ahead yeah
I it goes with this idea of putting it
into the town meeting um really the the
solar is the the school and the school
is the one who's going to be working on
that and it doesn't the town doesn't
need to be involved with the town
meeting for
that
um it's simply the school's Authority on
that and I don't think it should have to
be the town meeting
you've been sent a number of things
information from
Valerie and
um so you you think the solar project an
has uh is is is having an impact on the
education of the
children is it is it a is it an
educational issue the solar
project not
it's not a curriculum but it provides
the electricity or a lot of it that
provides the air conditioning to make it
comfortable and the lights so they can
see what they're doing you know it's a
part of the school and the school the
Board of Education and the and the
superintendent have control of the
building and I've said this to everybody
else I'll say it to you if we can't work
together on this this issue then you may
as well forget working on anything so
I'd like to ask you a question I'd like
to ask you a question why did you vote
against the 824 at your Planning and
Zoning
meeting only because it was not
necessary not necessary okay so the
project that why school project comes in
front of a school it's a it's a
building project that comes in front of
planning and zoning and you're on
Planning and Zoning representing the
town you don't vote for it because it's
under the jurisdiction of the Board of
Education
correct and
who we had no come on come on come on
let's stop who do you work for you work
for the town of Andover or where the the
the the faction on the board of
education that does not want to work
with us at
all the board of education has control
of the school
building and we should not be uring
usurping what the Board of Education
should be working on
okay okay Jeff just just let me I'm I'm
all for the solar stuff for the solar
project but what I'm concerned is and
you know we've had a couple emails from
some citizens saying this and this is
absolutely true a lot of solar companies
will promise you the moon they're going
to say you're going to save all this
money but you know what that is best
case scenario that's like cloud-free
days that's 100% efficiency I would be
100% behind this if we had an
independent consultant you know pay them
it's it's Li it's a small amount of
money have a consultant look at it and
look at the plan look at the equipment
and say yes this program is valid and
you're going to expect it to save this
amount of money and that nobody's talked
about that because we're just going off
of what the company is telling us we're
going to save and I would just like to
know and if I'm going to vote for this
or support this in any way make sure
100% that what they're promising us is
valid and and and Jeff I I I agree with
you I'm all for the solar project I am
all for putting this on on the roof it's
it's it's
a it's a project that I personally will
support right also too but I just want
to make sure that the numbers are
correct no understood and my issue my
issue is number
one the entire contract has not been
shared with us we've seen an addendum
we've seen uh a penalty language within
the addendum and the uh and the issue is
you know listen we're a small town you
know we we pretend to be a small town we
have a lot of residents we have a a town
meeting form of government that has not
changed and it's not that there's any
money required related to this project
but there is the potential for
penalties and I personally am not
willing to not sit there and have it
move forward with those penalties
without the
town stepping up and saying okay no
problem right the penalties probably
won't happen I'll understand that I I
get it but they're still there but
that's the only part of the contract
we've seen so there's a lot of I'm
concern I'm more concern about the
efficiencies and if we do have to and
let's just say we do have to repair a
section of the roof what are the cost
implications of that right I just want
to I want to get all that stuff out in
the open so we can discuss it and maybe
we have that meeting with the school
board and the superintendent and we we
discuss these these issues that we have
and we get all this stuff open maybe
maybe we have them send us the contract
or we we discuss the contract we have a
meeting and discuss it well you know it
it's just let's just get get past this
because it's got to we do need to get
past it but I want to make sure what
we're doing is the right thing to be
honest with you understood understood
and and you can request we can request
that from the Board of Education and sit
there and hopefully that that gets
provided to us so that we understand
what the risks are and what our payout
should be and there there also there
also was supposed to be a report done
around Christmas on the condition of the
roof correct and and all those things I
know we haven't
I haven't seen
so
um I just sit there and I look at it in
a very simple way that we're uh if we
can't work on this project together then
you know it's it's you may as well
forget working on anything else so well
Jeff I think it's a win-win I just think
we all need to get together and get on
the same page that's all I
agree problem this town feels like the
town can
do things with the school
building most towns are big enough that
they have more than one school and they
know where the board of aded is doing
something and the town doesn't have
anything to do with it where here the
board of Selectmen and the town think
that they can tell the Board of Ed what
to do which isn't true in most
towns all right that's good so now we
all understand where we're coming from
um I'm going to move on to item uh
agenda number 11 new business and
discuss an act upon the following the
Hop and Hodge event permit pending CT
approval Eric I know that's in the
package have you got any feedback on
that or or Jeff do you have any feedback
related to that
application no I have no feedback but I
can personally attest to Ken Platt and
his professionalism running events and
running events for the town in the past
and how he's been generous to the town
with the proceeds of some of his
events okay the last event I think he
had I think he donated enough money for
a picnic table on at the intersection
there the contact person on this is
Janet
Romo I'm just making sure it's the same
one it's the same
organization it should be plat systems I
believe that puts it that that's
actually the timing service he's the
race coordinator or the race director
the name of the or organization is hoop
and Hodges 5K out of East
Hartford well Eric they they put this
out way early so I appreciate that you
know this is not a situation where we
have these uh this coming back to us
this permit coming back to us couple
weeks beforehand so I don't really have
a problem I like having those events in
town yeah he's been doing it every year
so I I think we could probably approve
it pending s approval okay he can ker
somebody want to make a motion on that
one I motion I reprove The Hop and
Hodges race um what date was that uh
April 20th on April 20th pending sir
approval for the
event that SC seconded that all right
further
discussion all right all those in favor
I four nothing okay uh 11b a proc a
proclamation for the new faux house open
in Andover
Plaza uh Eric was this
[Music]
um was this related to the
um I just want to know who was doing the
welcoming is this the Chamber of
Commerce or our Economic Development uh
so if you look at the last signatory on
it is the chair of the
EDC um but I just thought since we had a
new business in town and we only get one
of those uh very
occasionally um that we have a
proclamation ready to go it would be
great if all the board of selectman
members would come in and sign it it's
sitting up on K desk awaiting signature
and we present it to them when they
finally get around to having a formal
open house with the Chamber of Commerce
okay all right I think that's excellent
um um I have no problem I'll make a
motion that we authorize the signing of
the uh town of Andover Proclamation welc
welcoming F faux house to the Andover
Plaza so
a further discussion on
that all those in favor
I Eric will get in there and sign that
as soon as possible okay and I would
note that that comes with a 50% increase
in the number of food vendors in this
one year in the in our town so now we
have three kind of options for food in
Little Old Land over okay um uh 11c
uh fire department requests for
self-contained breathing
apparatus yeah so the next two items uh
are relative to CIP and they were
requests by the fire commission so CIP
uh just want to give you a heads up on
this one Wall-E is sitting here with me
so Wally can give you a better
description of exactly what they're
asking for um this is a pretty large
Capital request um so so I wanted you as
a board to be aware that this is coming
down the pike uh so Wally is sitting
here right right with me if you have
questions for him I'm sure he can answer
as to what exactly they're looking for
and what the rationale is um
Wally thank you for attending can I ask
a question though um what is the the
budget cycle that this is going into are
we going to go into this budget cycle
that's open or next budget
cycle this would be this year years
budget or 25 26 budget year as a capital
expenditure okay so July one okay so
July one so we'd be putting it up for
Town vote um on the on this budget cycle
so okay so I I read the information um
you obviously have 18 units that are
probably 20 almost 20 years old and
you're looking to replace them with 20
units so you actually have two extra
it's 16 and four is what it comes out to
Jeff two spare and two for training
purposes because when our firefighters
go for
certification for firefighter one they
need to bring air packs with them and
right now we're pulling air packs off
the truck for them to take to school
with this proposal we have spares for
when they go out for service or if
people need them to go to school so
we're increasing the actual number
number from 16 to 20 air
packs all right and Wally the the number
that I saw in the package was
approximately $200,000 request so it's
$20,000 a unit or I'm sorry ,000,000
a piece plus the straps for the masks at
441 or 40 St sets of straps
so 441 time
40 and 10,000 *
20 okay I'm sorry yeah
um so it's 221
992 total
package okay um there's no partial doing
it uh 10 one year to and the
other no it's it's it's a swap out you
don't want in time of emergency somebody
having to think am I putting on this
type of an air pack or that type of an
air pack so it's a total change out we
want to do it all at once
okay all right so that has already gone
past CIP Eric I'm assuming that that
will be in the budget that's presented
to the board of Selectmen before we move
it on uh it is going back to CIP at the
next meeting they had a request for some
additional
information which I believe Wally will
be able to provide them so you should
have a response back uh for this
certainly for this budget cycle um it
sounds to me like CIP is going to accept
this and then the question just
becomes uh how we go about paying for
this because remember we're going to
have the new fire
truck and the payments on the new fire
truck uh also so um we are this will
drain um these two items together will
be a significant drain on the Permanent
Fund established for the fire
department okay so if you can provide us
that information because we obviously
have to weigh this in in relation to any
other spending that we need to do so
understood obviously we need to get this
done and it's just a question so Wally
if we actually push this a year you
could still use the current apparatus
that you have it's just that you're
having problems repairing them and
getting parts is what I read the age of
them and they're starting to nickel and
dyam to speak of something breaks down
it's a few hundred dollars to ship it
out have it repaired bring it back and
these costs are adding up
and because of the age we think about
the reliability as
well okay all right we we will sit there
and definitely if you get that other
information to CIP we'll sit there and
put it
into consideration on what we're doing
for the next fiscal
year thank you anybody else have any
other questions for
Wally
okay um now we moving on to item uh
sorry so and the total amount just so
everybody's aware the total amount if my
math is right with Wally is $2
17,640 221 992 is what I have two 204
34640 for the air packs
17,0
64560 for the
straps okay so it wasn't exactly $10,000
for the apparatus it was a little bit
more all
right
okay uh let's move on to 11d the fire
department request and CIP approval for
cabinet and counter top R placement in
the fire department so CIP uh also had a
request from the fire department for
replacement of the cabinets and the
countertops uh in both the kitchen area
and then and also in the officer's work
station area of the fire department uh
so they provided CIP one estimate for
both um CIP agreed that uh took a to of
the fire department decided they felt it
was a appropriate expense um based on
the condition of what they have and uh
they asked the fire department to go and
provide a minimum of three respons bids
on it prior to approving it so why I put
this on your agenda now because we don't
have the three quotes is that we do have
the capability and this would probably
be an appropriate expenditure for the
building maintenance fund because it is
a maintenance item so uh I guess my
question is if we do it as a building
maintenance item we don't NE necessarily
have to wait for next year's budget we
have the money in the building
maintenance fund to accomplish this so
if we get quotes
back um and the reason I'm asking is
that I think for a lot of
contractors you know if we're getting
bids now and it's for a project we're
likely to do as soon as we make a
decision that's going to end up being a
somewhat different cost basis than if we
get information now for something that
we may or may not approve next July so
my question is am I authorized to spend
this out of building maintenance fund as
something approved by
CIP um once the quotes are in
place come back with the quotes and
we'll come
back I mean the answer's yes if you're
asking me I would vote to sit there and
take it out of building maintenance but
you don't even have any range of numbers
you're asking
for we have a ballpark of approximately
16,000 and we are expecting to get back
to more quotes St so we know it's
somewhere in that ballpark at this point
okay so the anticipation Wally is less
than
$20,000 correct okay and what's in the F
what's remaining in that fund
Eric uh currently there is roughly
$100,000 in that
fund um of which some money is spoken
for for the installation of the
destratification
fans um and there's one checkout set
standing to mg
masonary so at at the next meeting when
we start talking about Capital planning
um we can start talking about what we
have earmarked out of that fund for
various different things but at this
point we have the funding for this
project project if the board wants to
authorize it now as opposed to waiting
to
July okay I
mean I'll sit there and make a motion
that we authorize the use of up to
$20,000 for the fire department request
for cabinets and countertop
replacement I'll second that
Jeff all right further discussion on
that item
anybody Jeff and I think it was just
countertops is that right Wall-E it's
cabinets and countertops cabinets too
okay we were just looking at the
counters mostly but yeah and this
includes installation cost as well or
just
material that was a total installation
Y and it was in two locations right
Wally the countertop in the watch room
in the front of the
building and the kitchen is where all
the cabinets and the rest of the
counters would be installed so there are
two locations yes okay yeah I'm just
trying to get my head around how many
counter counter how much linear feet of
countertop we have how many cabinets we
have and if that's a justifiable number
that's all I'm just trying
to I don't know I don't have all of
those figures Jeff to be honest we will
have the three quotes and can be looked
at and again you want to come to the
firehouse and look at it glad to show it
to you what we have yeah I'd be
interested in taking a look at the scope
of the project and actually seeing what
we're going to replace and then actually
I I I just I get a little nervous voting
on quote on things that I haven't seen
quotes for yet so I would like to see
what the final numbers
are I have no problem with that jef like
sitting there waiting till next month
until you have I mean we're not going to
be able to execute anyways because we
don't even any estimates to issue POS on
anyway so all right so as as an act of
good faith Wally that the board of
selectman is willing to support that if
you bring back reasonable quotes that's
what's coming and I I would like to see
just for myself what I'm voting on like
what we're actually physically replacing
if I remember correctly Wally they're
like tan uh uh laminate countertops yeah
they're bright bright red red cabinets
and everything is original to theill
building back to
1989 and when you go into the watch room
you can actually see the damage on the
countertop why that has to be replaced
the cabinets don't want to close anymore
we've got issues in the kitchen and
again for your own home if you're got
stuff that's that old you know what
starting to show it's wear and
tear okay understood I just want to make
sure we have enough money to cover the
replacement that needs to happen that's
all so Eric if you can put that on the
next uh agenda and if anyone wants to
get together with Wall-E and uh go
through the fire department um that
would be great y okay W how's your how's
your little dog doing is it
okay your dog didn't scare him too bad
yet I have to tell you guys a story we
walk by Wally's house every day getting
on to Lakeside and Wally's little dog I
mean it must be this big I got a 100
pound dog Wally's dog might be 10 PB and
that dog started coming down the
driveway dragging a cinder block to get
down to see us Carol had to come down
and save them from getting in the road
it was it was wonderful anyway uh Little
Town Andover there we go uh W thank you
very much you appreciate it thank you w
for all that you do
11 11e uh additional sign on Route 6 um
I know we just had the fa thing related
to Lane boot cart but we really need to
probably thank Elaine for all the work
she did to try to get that put in place
and
um now I'm going to make a
recommendation that we get a second sign
in place um and have it face in the
opposite direction or have the sign
company come back and give us a
recommendation of what may potentially
be able to get done um so that sign
looks really nice I think it looks great
I think it needs Kathy de roer had uh uh
reached out to Eric and to myself about
uh the beautification committee doing
some work around that uh it's something
that we need to look at putting into
next year's budget but um
um so we gonna do enf
together yeah we can do enf together so
it's the
uh I mean after seeing how the sign
looks and where it's at I just think we
need to put a sign that go faces in the
opposite direction Something That faces
in the opposite direction in the same
spot don't go down the other end of
Andover or the other the Columbia end of
Andover the Coventry end of Andover and
put a sign that has people well just
it's the our our our main focus is the
Old Town Hall and the bridge and across
the street that welcome tan and the uh
Veterans Memorial those three components
really make a nice and that's what we
have and that sign across the street on
that Hill looks very nice Elaine did a
great job he did it only took 10 years
to get money appropriated for that did
take her 10 years we already put the
second sign in this year's budget and it
we did the
of took it out
so so so where where the the the the
recommend this is going to go into next
year's budget my recommendation is that
we try to put another sign in there and
then we give uh we determine how to
either raise money or give enough money
to the beautification committee so that
they can do something to um make the uh
landscaping around it look
uh like it belongs there and that it it
it really calls out the sign properly
other than just having it sit on the
side of a hill so the beautification
committee is willing to do that work um
we just have to be willing to try to
fund it um yeah right we're okay we're
willing so so and over beautification we
are going to apply for a grant uh in
total we're hoping for the whole project
uh and that will be for the the welcome
sign that's presently there at this
point of course won't include the next
sign uh but I did speak with Elaine we
are looking at having art who made that
sign build a placard on the other side
of it so it's not two signs there but
one sign and more to come on that so
basically I just want to make sure that
the board of Selectmen I don't know if
you have to make a motion but uh move
that the Andover beautification can move
forward with um the uh I'm going to say
the garden and what needs to be around
it so that I can apply for a grant and
we go from there thank
you all right um well if that's the case
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
Andover beautification committee to
undertake um or and initiate a project
to uh beautify the area near the sign
and provide us back with the financial
needs that would be required and to also
be able to apply for a
grant seconded a second Jeff
seconded M so any further
discussion all those in favor I
okay just to add should we talk je just
to add to that I would like you know it
it is the town center but I think the
library and the church are part of that
town center and it it would be great if
we could put something like right where
the the the connectivity grant that Eric
put together somewhere on that hill or
at shotty Mill in Route 6 you know a
duplicate sign because I think we should
probably include all of that but that's
just my personal opinion but um you know
that's Town Town Center includes I I
think it would include the library and
the church as well understood okay so
when they EDC originally briefed this
for for their original goal was uh a
welcome to Andover sign one located on
the corner of Route Six in shoty Mill
fairly near where the old pound was
facing Route Six as you come into town
from uh centry I guess in that direction
and then uh the the other one where it
is
now that was their original concept
actually their original concept was
three one big one in the center town and
then two of the ones they made right
there uh one there and one at shotty mil
that was what their original proposal
was and if we were really smart if we
could took the backside of that sign and
make it if we could put electronic sign
or something we could put community
events on it that would even be a
win-win you know people going to the
transfer station could see it that seems
to be a high uh visibility point for
Community
messaging
so well hopefully Elaine can get the
second sign up a lot faster than she got
the first sign up and maybe we can
support her and get the board of Finance
to
also support it so okay
um did we vote we voted on the
authorization to allow Kathy to get the
Grant and to to give us the numbers
correct I didn't miss that did we vote
Yes or you got it correct yes yes you
voted all right for nothing okay
[Music]
um uh 11g uh uh we're just going to move
on from this Dennis we have to sit there
and make sure that we have the ordinance
prohibiting dogs on the athletic field
I'll be happy to do that just let me
know exactly what you want
okay you and Eric can I go back one did
we if we're asking art for a second
sign uh are we going with your idea Jeff
of having it collocated with the initial
sign or are we going with the other idea
of having it
um located at shotty mil because he's
going to want to know where it's going
in uh as part of this well if the group
thinks it's it would be better at shotty
Mill and put it at shotty Mill I just
think
that it really you know whatever I mean
he can sit there and evaluate it and
tell us what it would cost because maybe
he can turn that sign that's in the
center of town and put a facing on the
opposite side of that sign and it won't
cost that much money but it probably
will so um it's probably going to go on
shotty Mill but let Elaine do it Elaine
did a lot of the work she has the the
vision for it the place that Jeff Murray
wants it that's fine I have no problem
there's electricity at the first sign in
case they which they have they're going
to be a lighting sign
so so we can do some low I mean even at
the other place you can have low voltage
solar that you can do on that other sign
on shotty Mill
but let a lane sit there and take the
first crack on it just my opinion is
that we need another sign and and if the
beautification committee is going to
make it look pretty I'm all for it me
too and Jeff if we really had our way I
would sit there and take the uh the rail
trail wall that runs by the library and
all the way down that's about 400 feet
of concrete wall and we should have a
mural done on that to that would be
great to be positive toward endover
sobody can run their card on the whole
side of
it it would have to be really good I
just like that I just like that shotty
Mill vocation it's high visibility it's
like the look the traffic is pretty slow
to that area during rush hours so it and
it encompasses that
whole area that we you know we kind of
want to try to highlight anyway so Jeff
can I say one more thing
yeah it's about the sign because I spoke
with Elaine she's gone um on vacation
she has are already quoting the second
sign that could go on shotty Mill and a
placard to go on the back of the first
sign so there will be two quotes
forthcoming for you to
preview okay perfect we'll we'll get to
this next meeting and hopefully we can
get this done
quickly all right um we're going to move
on uh item H was deleted we're GNA go on
to 11i meeting dates for Budget
discussion um Eric what's your
recommendation what would you like us to
do what's your timing so my goal is to
have you a preliminary budget right
around February 1st so my question for
you is do you guys want to begin budget
meetings uh because you've kind of gone
back and forth between whether you want
to do them strictly combined with border
of Finance whether you want to crack at
it beforehand or what you want from me
prior
to uh prior to the budget officially be
turned over to the board of
Finance well I would sit there and and
say I would like to sit there and see
the budget uh with the board of
selectman before it goes to the board of
Finance I don't necessarily know that we
have to you know I would like you to sit
there and at least have two one to
review what you want to do and then one
for you to revise your numbers related
to the priorities that we believe are
out there so and then it can go to the
board of finance and they can sit there
and and do their due diligence on what
we're requested in that would be
my I would basically tell the board of
selectman we would have two meetings one
to review Eric's initial budget and and
to sit there and tell him what
priorities that we think he needs to
make and then have him go back and make
the revisions and then present to us one
more time and then present it over to
the board of
Finance anybody have any thoughts on
that I agree I think we need to turn
more of the responsibility over to the
board of Finance U maybe one meeting
meeting with Eric just to review his
budget and just basically a general memo
to the board of Finance basically what
are wishes or what we think the
direction of the town and the budgetary
direction should be heading but I think
it's a lot of to ask of Eric to sit
through meeting after meeting with us
and then go sit through meetings with
the board of Finance so if we can kind
of streamline that process and make it
as painless as
possible I I you know we do have a board
of Finance we have a lot of SM people on
that board and I think we need to let
them uh take over that responsibility a
little bit more and I think we should
get a walk away from it a little bit and
just kind of send a basic message of
Direction instead of just basically
trying to put together a
budget understood well Eric already has
the budget put together because he's
doing it related to that so um I agree
with your your memo and your you know
what we're trying to get accomplish and
why we have certain things in the budget
because 90% of that budget is going to
be standardized items that
are related to operational items that
are you know we're not going to change
very much and the items that we need to
discuss are the items related to Capital
uh investment and where we want to put
it and whether it's the the request for
the fire department or it's the request
for the school or it's the request for
other items we need to sit there and
build that Capital fund out so that we
can sit there and you know either save
or get some things done so I agree just
basically certain light items that we do
support and light items that we know we
feel we could probably hold off for a
year or two and and wait on but let's
let's let's let the responsibility to
interview boards and you know have
boards come to them and present their
budgets to the board of Finance instead
of us and then just you know I the whole
goal is to streamline the processes and
make it as painless as possible so yeah
yeah I have no problem with that so does
anybody have a problem with establishing
an initial me in the beginning of
February to review the budget with
Eric okay so Eric do you have a schedule
that you want to be on do you want to do
it
uh so it depends what
nights uh you want to do it um you know
if you were sticking with the Monday
schedule you know theoretically of the 3
the 10th and the 17th
why don't we do the
third as initial budget review and then
the 10th is our regular scheduled
meeting and we can review your revisions
based upon our
recommendations and when is your
anticipated date of giving it to the
board of
Finance um I would assume as soon as you
guys are through with them because
they're going to need part of February
and all of March to review given the
revised timelines okay so let's sit
there and say we could uh have the
initial um
budget communication on the 3 the
meeting on the 3 and then we have our
second meeting on the 10th which is our
normal meeting and we put that on our
agenda to review the revised budget and
is that enough time for you to revise I
don't necessarily think it's going to
be um
does anybody think we need more than
that do you have does the board have an
idea of what
specifics you want from me for the
meeting on the 3 I mean one of the first
things that the board of Selectmen
really has to do is you do set salary
and compensation for all employees that
are not Union and not elected well and
technically those that don't have
contracts
so um it's determining what your general
across the board wage increase if any is
um is one of the first things you have
to do as a board um and then you know
I'm happy to review sounds like capital
is probably what you're most interested
in so I'm happy to to review capital and
capital expenditures with you
um whatever else it is that you have
that's a
priority uh
we have between today which is the 10th
and the the let's say the 21st to get
you uh emails as to what our priorities
are and then you can try to incorporate
those into what you build for us for the
third is that
acceptable and then I would tell you on
the wage side you need to come to us
with what um you believe and you can
email this to us what you believe uh the
the rates are out there and what we
should be considering as far as those
percentage increases
right okay and just to remember these
are just suggestions for the board of
Finance these are not what we're
dictating we're just suggesting well but
actually the one thing keep in mind Jeff
is that the board of Selectmen does set
the wage and benefits for Town employees
the board of Finance does not Board of
Finance sets for elected officials but
not for the rest of employees that is
actually one of your responsibilities
technically as a board of
Select but that is still approved at
public meeting right or public
referendum yes
well it's part of the budget it's part
of the
budget that's an interesting question
that's a dentist question whether they
can the public can change individual
people's salaries well they can't
individual but just across the board if
we do you know yeah I can do it across
the board that's right yep let's not
give let's not give anybody any ideas so
well I can result in layoffs or
something like that you know let's uh
but that's right no ideas let's let's
sit there and
um uh communicate with Eric between now
and give them to the
like the 21st and then he has you know
I'm sure he's got the majority of the
budget put together from a preliminary
standpoint and then we'll each give him
things that we want him to focus on and
then he presents it to us on the third
and then we sit there and make
adjustments between the third and the
10th and we see what we consider to be a
uh an appropriate preliminary budget to
provide back to the board of
Finance okay good
okay um anybody else have any other
issues related to that no item 12
approval of minute meetings for 1212
2024 I make a motion to approve the
meeting minutes for 1212
2024 okay I got a
second seconded and KET seconded further
discussion any issues all those in favor
I all right item 13 the treasurer's
report that was in our packet and
started on
page
44 um any questions related to the
treasurers
report uh I do have one Eric can you ask
her to include the balance
sheet okay okay
any specific issues related to uh the
presentation made by the treasurer's
office and the
treasure
okay um we move down to a 14 which is
the tax collector's report and that
starts on page 55 of our
packet we collected
$571,000 in the month of December
in
taxes and then she provided a list of
the largest delinquent taxpayer reports
and there is one tax
refund somebody want to make a motion on
that
one make a motion we do make this one
tax refund to a Michael
Hebert for
$17.11 I'll second that all those in
favor
I
okay uh I 15 departmental reports there
was a report from the assessor's
office there was a report from the fire
department for the year they had 400
service calls in 2024 we have to thank
the fire department for all that hard
work
um December was a very low month in the
the building department as can be
expected and we had a report from public
works and I think that was it for
reports Eric correct correct I don't
think there was anything else submitted
oh I'm sorry Library report let me not
forget the
library um they were they provided the
report for December of
2024 any questions on any of the reports
that were submitted by any of the
uh by any of the
Departments okay do we have any uh
correspondence
Eric NOP all right not that I'm aware of
public speak
[Music]
um test gross
yes sir all good um yeah my name is
grous not gross just pronunciation
that's all I get it corrected that's
okay right Nick
LaVine all
good yeah CBC um I have a phone number
and I believe that's lean Hutchinson
is it
5475 yes
ma'am yes that's me um nothing thank you
okay Valerie
brno hi I just wanted to um comment on
the idea of the solar just to uh let you
know Jeff Murray I know you had asked
about a few things and I'll provide more
in the future to you guys but we have in
fact had um the Town Administrator speak
to our solar person uh in regards to the
project we have had a structural
engineer and there's a number of other
things that um you know you've mentioned
that have actually already been a part
of the the package so I will send some
more information along just as an FYI uh
so that you know where we are with that
project thank
you okay thank you uh Joanne
Ebert I am all set thank you all right
Kimberly psan
I'm all set thank you Caitlyn
Macintosh um just one comment when you
guys were talking about the community
room um being used exclusively for
meetings I don't know if you guys know
there is um currently an event that
takes place in there on Friday
afternoons um for kids that are like
from kindergarten to second grade um
that's a stem project through the
talland robotics something or rather
um it's really a small area for the
amount of people that need to fit into
that room and they ask parents to sit at
the side of it um I would hope that
there'd be possibility for that program
to move into the community center I'm
hoping there's more space in there um
also would put a plugin for having some
kind of infrastructure or online way to
sign up for community events and Senior
events um I understand the idea of
putting the cart before the horse but
sometimes you have to do that in order
to move uh with Society the way that you
need to um again thank you for what you
guys are doing um and regards to the
solar project with AES uh we'll
definitely keep you guys informed when
we get the results back of the
structural engineering um stuff that was
done over the Christmas break thank
you thank you Stephen King nothing else
thank
you Louise good
one I'm all set thank you David ganian
uh hi Jeff uh we were uh the fire
department was under the impression that
um our request to um change the tax
abatement would be on the agenda today
um we got the
paperwork uh did Dennis made some
corrections and I thought that was
supposed to be on the agenda
today uh I thought it was too but it's
not on the list unless I missed it it is
under right well at least on
my my agenda it is on the list under
item G which was maybe your item
H it was one of the items that we were
going to set the meeting date was
um David you're because we eliminated
that item for the town meeting we
eliminated that we will we will address
that um Eric put that on the agenda
outside of the town meeting setup so
that we can have the necessary data and
discuss it and get that
moving
[Music]
okay apologies for that Dave thanks
sorry about that Dave
yeah Liz
lat I'm all said thank you all right
Kathleen der roer I encourage the board
of Selectmen to support the software for
the new community senior space for
efficiency and
Reporting um seniors are not there are
seniors seniors are 62 and up and
there's plenty of seniors that are using
apps and programs uh so I really
encourage this I think going back to
paper back and forth back and forth is
um not a good use of uh our our director
over there in her time but I do
understand waiting the three months but
I encourage you to move forward with
this okay thank you Diane grer I'm all
set thank you very much good job guys
and
girls uh Brienne
lener I'm almost set thanks
okay all right everyone thank you very
much for attending um Eric
um I'm going to make a motion that we go
into executive session to discuss uh
Personnel issues and we invite the Town
Clerk and the town administr tror
anybody have any other issues well how
about the town
attorney excuse me you missed it your
ears were closed there for a second I
did
invite is on vacation is there anyone
else I need any is there anyone else I
need to invite
in Jeff I just have a question sure can
you tell me why you're going into
executive
session um we have some issues that we
have to address related to
uh our town clerk position and I'm sure
that Tess we will discuss Personnel
issues and if you would like to come in
because we're going to discuss your
position you're more than welcome would
you like to absolutely I would no
problem we'll have you come in
first okay um everyone else thank you
very much Eric if you can uh stop the
recording for a bit and and remove
everyone else to the
session second it
we out um I believe we're back to be
recording I I don't think I see it but I
heard it um we're coming out of the
executive session it is
11:04 um do we have any business to
conduct yes Eric can I get Tess's last
name please gr gr
right I'd like to make a motion to
extend test gr's probationary period by
three months
effective
today I'll second
that further
discussion all those in favor
I okay any other
business any
discussion no we're done we0 are you I'd
like to make a motion to hire Christine
Randazzo as the town's be for the pickle
ball and playground enhancement project
somebody want to second that I would say
hire her as the construction
administrator because that's basically
what we're doing so yeah revise it and
then put the dollar amount per hour
right yes yes put it in so yeah I'd like
to H Christine Randazzo as the town's
engineer for $100 an
hour for the pickle ball and play
enhancements good at
Eric I I would instead of calling her
the town's engineer because we
technically have Nathan Jacobson is the
town's construct Consulting engineering
firm I would hire her to do construction
administration at an hourly rate of $100
an hour
um you know for that project pursuant to
a contract pursuant to a
[Laughter]
contract here we go again let's
go Motion to hire Christine R Randazzo
as a construction
administrator for $100 an
hour for the pickle ball and playground
enhancements good
enough and
are discussion on that no all those in
fav uh can I revise it just to not to do
do we need do we need to put it on
exceeded amount well we actually said
pursuant to a contract okay okay so
Scott you're gonna add pursuant to a
contract being we're gonna do it
again sorry I just we just we just need
to put an out because we can't we can't
have it open-ended
oire Christine Randazzo as
a con administrator for the pickle ball
and playground enhancements pursuant to
a
contract for the amount for the hourly
amount of $100 an hour for the hourly
amount of
$100 per hour per hour per hour yeah
seconded right all those in favor
I all right um motion to
adjourn I move the wayour second it and
seconded all those in favor all right
thank you very much Dennis thank you all
right everybody very productive meeting
great it's wonderful to be here thank
you